Real time air pollution monitoring is very vital. It provides a lot of useful and accurate information to the public and the decision makers to improve the quality of their environment and implement measures to control the pollution. This real-time air monitoring plays a very vital role in densely populated areas which helps to access the values of micro level air pollution. Monitoring these pollutants with the help of IoT is very cost effective and it also provides real time analysis. Foreign substances are introduced into the environment that has damaging effects on the livelihood in the environment is called air pollution. This pollution effects the quality of the environment and air. Detecting all the unwanted substances and the components in the air and passing the information to the host to manage the air pollution is called as air quality management. To achieve this goal, we are going to build an Air Quality Monitoring System. The sensor raw data is converted to the necessary Parts Per Million (PPM) data format to implement the concept of Edge Computing. Therefore, levels of hazardous gases such as Carbon Monoxide, Carbon Dioxide and Ammonia can be detected and if required, necessary actions can be initiated to reduce the pollution. Further, using the concentration values of above gases, Air Quality Index (AQI) is calculated. The IoT framework can be utilized for observing the Air Pollution of certain localities and help in rectifying the existing problems of Air Pollution in such areas.
